\input texinfo.tex
@c Above tells TEX to use the ‘texinfo.tex’ file, which tells TEX how 
@c to translate the Texinfo commands into TEX typesetting commands...

@c Set file name for output and tell TEX to open auxiliary files.
@c  everything before this line is ignored...
@setfilename Avaneya Crew Handbook

@c Set title for page headers / footers...
@include Version.texi
@settitle Avaneya Crew Handbook @value{VERSION_MANUAL}

@c Macros...
@set MANUAL_TITLE           Avaneya Crew Handbook
@set MANUAL_DESCRIPTION     A comprehensive aid for contributors.
@set AVANEYA_DESCRIPTION    A cerebral science fiction game for GNU.

@c Copyright notice...
@copying
@value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}

@sp 1
Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Kshatra Corp.
@sp 1

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document 
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or 
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no 
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A 
copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free 
Documentation License".
@end quotation
@end copying

@c Start title page...
@titlepage
@title @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@subtitle @value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}
@subtitle Last updated @value{VERSION_MANUAL}.
@author Kip Warner

@c Document description...
@documentdescription
@value{DESCRIPTION}
@end documentdescription

@c Copyright page...
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@c End the title page and begin page numbering...
@end titlepage 

@c Output the table of contents at the beginning...
@summarycontents
@contents

@c Top / master node...
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@value{DESCRIPTION}
@end ifnottex

@c Master menu...
@chapter Table of Contents
@menu
* Purpose of Handbook::         Why this handbook was created in the first place.
* Game Synopsis::               The story at a glance.
* Intended Audience::           Who is this game created for?
    Who its for
    Who its not for
* Features::                    Technical and other features of the game.
* The Game World::              All about the world the game takes place in.
* Types of Contributors::
* Information for ???:: 
* Gameplay::                    How is the game played?
* Suggested Readings::          Things to consider reading to aid in understanding the game.
* Appendices (licenses)
* Index::

@detailmenu

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@c Body...
@node Purpose of Handbook
@chapter Purpose of Handbook
This is the first chapter.

@c Print the index...
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@c Appendices...
@node Appendices
@appendix Licenses

    @c GPLv3...
    @node
    @appendixsec GNU General Public License 3.0
    @include "Source/Licenses/GPL.texi"

    @c GFDL 1.2...
    @page
    @node
    @appendixsec GNU Free Documentation License 1.2
    @include "Source/Licenses/GFDL.texi"

    @c CC-BY-NC-SA 3.0 Unported...
    @page
    @node
    @appendixsec Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 3.0 Unported
    @c @include "Source/Licenses/CC-BY-NC-SA-Unported.texi"
    (License text goes here)

@c End of document...
@bye

