\input texinfo.tex
@c Above tells TEX to use the ‘texinfo.tex’ file, which tells TEX how 
@c to translate the Texinfo commands into TEX typesetting commands...

@c Set file name for output and tell TEX to open auxiliary files.
@c  everything before this line is ignored...
@setfilename "Avaneya Crew Handbook"
@documentencoding UTF-8

@c Set title for page headers / footers...
@include Version.texi
@settitle Avaneya Crew Handbook @value{VERSION_MANUAL}

@c Macros...
@set MANUAL_TITLE           Avaneya Crew Handbook
@set MANUAL_DESCRIPTION     A comprehensive guide for all of our bold contributors.
@set AVANEYA_DESCRIPTION    A cerebral science fiction game for GNU.

@c Copyright notice...
@copying
@value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}

@sp 1
Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Kshatra Corp.
@sp 1

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document 
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or 
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no 
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A 
copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free 
Documentation License".
@end quotation
@end copying

@c Start title page...
@titlepage
@title @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@subtitle @value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}
@subtitle Last updated @value{VERSION_MANUAL}.
@author Kip Warner

@c Document description...
@documentdescription
@value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}
@end documentdescription

@c Copyright page...
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@c End the title page and begin page numbering...
@end titlepage 

@c Output the table of contents at the beginning...
@c @summarycontents
@contents

@c Top / master node...
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@value{MANUAL_DESCRIPTION}
@end ifnottex

@c Body follows...

@node Why The Handbook?
@chapter Why The Handbook?

@node The Game
@chapter The Game
@section Classification
@section Who It Is For
@section Who It Is Not For
This game will challenge you. People who believe things originate in 
cans and have an attention span lasting only a few seconds will not 
enjoy this game. There are many games that appeal to those kind of 
people, so that is not our concern here.

@node Licensing
@chapter Licensing

@node The Story
@chapter The Story

@node Features
@chapter Features

@node Game World
@chapter The Game World
@section The Characters

@node Contributors
@chapter Contributor Capacities
Avaneya is a fairly large, creative, and collaborative project, 
calling upon a variety of different disciplines. These are the 
different capacities Avaneya contributors fall into. Note that there 
is no reason why someone who wishes to work in more than one capacity
cannot. Many do already.

@itemize
@sp 1
@item
2D Artist
@item
Administrator
@item
Audio Engineer
@item
Cinematic Artist
@item
Engineer
@item
Modeller
@item
Musician
@item
Researcher
@item
Scripter
@item
Translator
@item
Voice Actor
@item
Web Developer
@item
Writer
@end itemize

@node Technologies Used
@chapter Technologies Used

@node Working With The Crew
@chapter Working With The Crew
@c @include "Working With The Crew.texi"

@node Things to Know
@chapter Things to Know

@node Gameplay
@chapter Gameplay

@node Suggested Readings
@chapter Suggested Readings
These books you should consider reading to aid in enriching your 
understanding of the game. You may find them useful

@c Print the index...
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@c License appendix...
@node Licenses
@appendix Licenses
@include Licenses.texi

@c End of document...
@bye

