@c The Project Crew chapter...
@node The Project Crew
@chapter The Project Crew

@section If You Are New

If you are new to the Avaneya crew, welcome! You will probably enjoy working on the project and the sense of community @i{software libre} projects tend to create. To get you started, here are a couple things you should probably do as soon as you can.
@sp 1

@enumerate

@item
Read this handbook, which you are already doing.
@sp 1

@item
Get on the low volume announcement mailing list. @xref{Mailing Lists} for details.
@sp 1

@item
Join the Avaneya Crew on Launchpad. Membership requires approval. If you already received an invite, great. Otherwise, feel free to ask us. There is lots of room in the project for more talent. @xref{Launchpad Crew} for details.
@sp 1

@item
Also join the private discussion mailing list at the aforementioned link. Once on, I recommend you email the list and let everyone know a bit about yourself. They are all good people and will be happy to see a new face. You will be joining fellow musicians, engineers, and artists. @xref{Mailing Lists} for details.
@sp 1

@end enumerate

@section Specialties
Avaneya is a fairly large, creative, and collaborative project, calling upon a variety of different disciplines. These are the different capacities Avaneya contributors fall into. There is no reason why someone who wishes to work in more than one capacity cannot. Many do so already.
@sp 1

@table @emph
@item 2D Artist
2D artists work on the graphical user interface managed by cegui, texturing for models, and other things of that sort. Their areas of expertise range from conceptual art, storyboarding, font design, bump maps, and procedural textures (materials). They can work with a range of software from FontForge to GIMP.
@sp 1

@item Audio Engineer
These folks creatively can take unassuming sounds and transform them into things usable for science fiction game. An example would be sampling the squeak of a chair or a car driving by with a high end portable recorder and remixing it into the sound of a nuclear electric ion-drive propulsion system. You might find them working with software like Ardour, Rosegarden, and portable high resolution audio recorders.
@sp 1

@item Cinematic Artist
Cinematics play an important role in games. They prepare the user and set the stage in ways that would be difficult to do during normal game play. They work with tools like Blender, Cinelerra, and Lombard.
@sp 1

@item Engineer
The engineers design, discuss, and implement the engine specification, along with writing the Lua script that drive the engine. They work mostly in the languages of C++ and GLSL. The GNU Autotools is useful in the way construction scaffolding is, and they depend on it to ensure the software stays as versatile as possible. There may be some opportunities for assembly level optimizations, but they largely work at a higher level of abstraction that the OGRE 3D rendering engine expects. They coordinate their work with the rest of the team via Bazaar and take care of distribution of pre-compiled binaries via packaging (e.g. debs).
@sp 1

@item Modeller
Modellers produce the 3D game models the user sees during game play. They also work with the 2D artists to ensure models are properly textured. They work with Blender, Wings 3D, or any other modelling program that supports standard patent free model formats.
@sp 1

@item Musician
The musicians create either new or provide existing tracks for the game. The music falls into two categories. The first is in game ambient music that the user passively listens to. The second is music that is more actively listened to during navigation menus, cinematics, and possibly the separately to be released game soundtrack.
@sp 1

@item Researcher
These people provide the background information and attention to detail that makes the game rich. They have an interest in @emph{areology} (the study of Mars), terraforming, simulation and complex modelling, social and political issues (e.g. the @emph{Genuine Progress Indicator}), and whatever else that might be useful.
@sp 1

@item Scripter
Scripters write code in Lua that drives and breathes life into the game engine. They will probably work with the engineers to ensure the functionality they require of the AresEngine is exposed safely.
@sp 1

@item System Administrator
System administrators run and administer the user forum, moderate the IRC chatroom, monitor the bug tracker on Launchpad, and so on.
@sp 1

@item Translator
Translators are what makes Avaneya available to people of different languages. They ensure cinematic subtitles and the game's GUI, and website, are properly internationalized. They work with any tools that support standard GNU gettext and language catalogues.
@sp 1

@item Voice Actor
Cinematics and in game audio often requires real people to play a role.
@sp 1

@item Web Developer
Web developers are familiar with standards and work with things like CSS, XHTML, php, MySQL, and so on. They probably will end up coordinating with the system administrators.
@sp 1

@item Writer
Writers work closely with the researchers and other artists to provide dialogue and scripts for storyboarding and other game media.
@sp 1

@end table

@page
@section Avaneya Code of Conduct
@include "Code of Conduct.texi"

@section Current Members
@c include "Current Members.texi"

@section Communication and Coordination
The team uses two primary means of intercommunicating. The first is through the crew mailing list, and the second is over IRC. The Code of Conduct applies to both. @xref{Code of Conduct}.

@node Mailing Lists
@subsection Mailing Lists
Mailing lists have been around for literally decades. They lack the cosmetics and ease of use of a forum, but until our website is ready, it will suffice for the time being.

Avaneya has three mailing lists. The first is a unidirectional announcement mailing list. It is low volume and only intended to communicate from the project to the general public about major project press releases. Anyone can subscribe to it.
@sp 1

Subscribe:
@sp 0
@url{https://www.avaneya.com/lists/?p=subscribe&id=1} 
@sp 1

Browse the archives:
@sp 0
@url{https://www.avaneya.com/news/announcements/}
@sp 1

The second @email{avaneya@@lists.avaneya.com} is for anyone to discuss anything related to the project. It is open to everyone.
@sp 1

Subscribe:
@sp 0
@url{http://lists.avaneya.com/listinfo.cgi/avaneya-avaneya.com} 
@sp 1

Browse the archives:
@sp 0
@url{http://lists.avaneya.com/pipermail/avaneya-avaneya.com/}
@sp 1

@node Crew Mailing List
The third @email{avaneya-private@@lists.avaneya.com} is open only to project crew. Topics range from game storyline spoilers, unreleased conceptual art, security vulnerabilities, and so on. If you are a volunteer, you should have been sent a subscription invitation.
@sp 1

Subscribe:
@sp 0
@url{http://lists.avaneya.com/listinfo.cgi/avaneya-private-avaneya.com} 
@sp 1

Browse the archives:
@sp 0
@url{http://lists.avaneya.com/private.cgi/avaneya-private-avaneya.com/}
@sp 1

When using either of the latter two mailing lists, you may find the following tips useful.
@sp 1

@itemize @bullet
@item
Do not ever send HTML email. Some peoples' mail clients cannot render it. And even if they can, there is no guarantee it will come out the same. People with visual disabilities may not have their speech synthesizers work properly, since HTML email is much harder to parse. Others may have to pay for additional bandwidth to retrieve your email, since HTML email is larger in size than plain text.@footnote{For more information, consider reading @url{http://www1.american.edu/cas/econ/htmlmail.htm}}
@sp 1

@item
When you reply to a post, remember to reply to the list and not just the original sender privately. Unless you had intended to, the mailing list is setup so that everyone who subscribes to it may benefit from productive communication on it. Sometimes this may not happen until years later when a new subscriber searches through old archives to find a solution to a problem they were having that was solved long ago.
@sp 1

@item
When replying to a post, if you have your subscription configured to use batch digest mode,@footnote{When batch digest mode is enabled, the server will "batch" together emails into groups and then it to you as a single compilation to cut down on the amount of email you receive.} you do not need to copy the whole digest. Just quote the minimum needed for context.
@sp 1

@item
Check the subject heading of your reply to a message posted on the list to make sure it still reflects the original post. Some mail readers, if you have batch digest mode enabled in your subscription, will change the heading to reflect the batch digest's subject heading, instead of the specific message within it you are replying to.
@sp 1

@item
When you reply, remember to reply at the bottom and not at the top of the message. Top posting is generally not encouraged because it makes preservation of chronological order difficult to follow for readers.@footnote{This explains why top posting is a bad idea: @url{https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Top_posting#Top-posting}.}
@sp 1

@end itemize

@subsection Internet Relay Chat (IRC)

IRC is among the oldest forms of realtime chat over the internet. Avaneya has a channel (@strong{#avaneya}) on the Freenode server (@strong{irc.freenode.net}). You can use whatever client you like, but it is recommended you use one that supports SSL.

Make sure you register your chosen nick name with the @i{nickserv} on Freenode. This ensures you are consistently identifiable to others in the chat room.

Whenever you would like to send someone a message publicly in the channel, you should precede your message with their nick name. This is because many people have their IRC clients configured to alert them audibly when that happens, as opposed to every time anyone says anything in the channel. Usually you only need to type the first few letters of their nick name and hit tab to have your client complete it.

@subsection Launchpad

Launchpad is a project started by Canonical, the company behind the Ubuntu project. It is an online service that allows for coordinated software project collaboration. It provides services for source control management, blueprints, support, bug tracking, and more. The Avaneya project, the people behind it, and the source code as it develops can be found there.

If you are a contributor, make sure you remember to add yourself to the Launchpad project crew.
@sp 1

Launchpad project website:
@sp 0
@url{https://launchpad.net/avaneya}
@sp 1

@node Launchpad Crew
Launchpad crew website:
@sp 0
@url{https://launchpad.net/~avaneya}
@sp 1

@subsubsection Bug Tracker

Launchpad's bug tracker tracks all issues submitted to it originating both from users and the crew.
@sp 1
Bug tracker:
@sp 0
@url{https://bugs.launchpad.net/avaneya}
@sp 1

@subsubsection Bazaar Revision Control
We use Bazaar for revision control, hosted on Launchpad. You can browse it on the web here:
@sp 0
@url{https://code.launchpad.net/~kip/avaneya/trunk}
@sp 1

Some ask why we had not initially chosen a distributed revision control system (DRCS), one class of source control management systems (SCM). SCMs are used to allow multiple people to collaborate over a shared set of files, track revisions and logs, and a number of other things. There are many free programs that allow this, but they can generally be grouped into two categories or paradigms based on how they are expected to be used.

DRCS are akin to peer-to-peer software where they can be used in the absence of a central canonical server. Proponents argue users are better able to work productively when not connected to a network, most operations are much faster since no network is involved, and more. Probably the strongest point raised is it allows participation in projects without requiring permissions from project authorities, and thus arguably better fosters a culture of meritocracy instead of requiring "committer" status. Software that implements these include Mercurial, Git, Bazaar, Monotone, Darcs, and others. This approach has been popularized by the open source movement in recent years, as it captures the "bazaar" approach to software development (think of the Persian marketplace).

CRCS, centralized revision control systems, are akin to peer-to-server model. They have a single canonical repository on a single server. Proponents argue it is more straightforward to contribute to, work is better coordinated, has a more approachable learning curve, backups are more straightforward, and has been around longer. CVS, Subversion, and many others implement this approach. This approach has been popularized by the free software movement, as it captures the "cathedral" approach to software development (think of a central coordinator).

Many people had suggested we use Bazaar because it has a feature that Subversion, what many are use to, does not, DRCS. It is clear that it is perfectly capable of the distributed approach, but that should not be characterized as a feature any more than the specific colour of a car is a feature. It is not a feature, but a preference. Nevertheless, we ended up settling with Bazaar because it can function in the DRCS approach, is the only SCM supported by Launchpad, integrates well with modern graphical GNU desktop environments,@footnote{As an example, check to see if your distribution carries the @i{nautilus-bzr} package.} and improves on the features Subversion supports. Besides, it was time to try something new and learning something new is usually not a bad idea.

@subsubsection Blueprints


