@c The Game chapter...
@node The Game
@chapter The Game

@section Why?
Too often, people have come out of experiencing a great dystopian science fiction novel or film, only to say to themselves, Thank goodness we don't live in @i{that} world! That needs to change.

Dystopian science fiction can arguably be among the most honest kind of story telling when examined in the context of history. But unless people can see the connection between the world they perceived in fiction and the one they inhabit, vague analogies and cryptic metaphors tend to have minimal utility as pedagogical aids.

But @i{good} science fiction is only @i{partly} fiction because it is often the @i{science} portion that is what attracts people to it in the first place. Science, by its nature, is a thinking and knowledge oriented enterprise - not unlike the people that tend to gravitate towards the aforementioned genre. This can set the bar high for what they expect and requires designers to pay a great deal of attention to detail. A certain degree of artistic license is to be expected, but users still expect it to be as consistent with what we already know to be true or what is at least reasonably plausible. It may be because of the thinking and learning aspect that we are seeing less and less science fiction entertainment as time goes on. That needs to change.

Another important reason is that there is very little, if any, free commercial entertainment for the GNU operating system. When people use GNU, they are treated as second class citizens in terms of the availability of high quality games. Not only are there very few higher production titles that are available for GNU, they are usually proprietary, and even then, generally bad ports using deprecated APIs, poorly packaged, @footnote{That is, if they even bother to use the platform's native distribution's package manager in the first place.} and integrate horribly into the user's desktop - ignoring the usual human factors community driven conventions.

But in terms of their subject matter itself, they tend to appeal more to the senses of the mainstream proprietary user, and thus do not reflect the spirit of a social conscience commonplace in the @i{software libre} community. That also needs to change.

@node Classification
@section Classification
People have struggled in the past to classify Avaneya. It is what it is, but the closest traditional categories that form a subset of it are the traditional city builder and management simulations and the real time strategy.

@node Who Is It For?
@section Who Is It For?
The game so far has attracted a fairly large base of followers. From what can be observed at this time, the game appears to appeal to those with an interest in:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@emph{software libre}
@item 
@emph{a social conscience}
@item
@emph{science fiction}
@item
@emph{the interconnectedness of everything}
@end itemize

The game may take place in the future, but it deals with current problems. The best way to get an idea of the intended audience is to quickly @pxref{Relevant Readings} and to ask yourself the type of audience that those resources would probably appeal to. 

@section Who Is It Not For?
Avaneya is a @i{sui generis}. It is not like other games, and thus it is not for all people. Those who have a brief attention span or believe that things originate in cans, as in, little understanding and appreciation for process, will simply not enjoy this game. There are already many such games that appeal to that type of audience, so that need not be our aim here.

This game will challenge you to think, and possibly even offend you. Some have even accused Avaneya of being a vehicle for political views. The project is guilty as charged---like the newspapers, film, television, games, and other mainstream media that saturate us. 

The only difference is that, unlike those mediums, the very presence of a normative bias in Avaneya is not subject to dispute and is self evident. Other mediums often pretend to not have one. In any case, you would be very hard pressed to try to find any classical work of science fiction, or really any kind of fiction for that matter, that did not. Moreover, that in itself is not necessarily a bad thing.


