@c Timeline chapter...
@node Timeline
@chapter Timeline

The world Avaneya takes place in is highly self-referential. A fictional timeline is positioned relative to a @dfn{year zero}, with dates preceding suffixed @dfn{B.R.}, before the republic; while those following are suffixed @dfn{A.R.}, after the republic. This is the method adopted by Arda and his settlers. 

Note that a year is defined as a Martian year (MYr) and is not the same as a Terran year. You may want to refer to @ref{Game World Time} for a more detailed explanation on how the settlers keep track of time on Mars.

The year zero's placement relative to the Gregorian calendar is deliberately never given. But inferentially, one can reason that it is proximate enough for a contemporary audience to still feel relevant, yet distant enough to afford some reasonable creative licenses.
@sp 1

@c Provides hint to astute reader of rough order of magnitude of time between now and story...
@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The last of the @i{International Space Station} crew return to Earth with the station subsequently decommissioned, deorbited, and incinerated during atmospheric entry.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The bancor is declared the new global currency and implemented via the respective central banks of the North American Union, European Union, African Union, and Asian Union.
@sp 1

@c Don't use provisional designation for asteroid since includes fixed Gregorian date in name...
@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Ramraj discovers a near-Earth, C-type Amor II asteroid, with a size comparable to Phobos from the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research laboratory, Socorro, New Mexico, North American Union. The discovery is rapidly assigned the designation @dfn{52048 Varuna} by the @i{International Astronomical Union}. His findings are detailed in the @i{Minor Planet Circular} where he calculates a near collision trajectory with Mars.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Wikileaks publishes a leaked list of 163 purported attendees of the annual Bilderberg conference held three days prior at the Hotel de Crillon, Paris, European Union. Dr. Samuel Lieberman, director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and Adriaan Janssen, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, are among those listed.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The United Nations holds the Second International Mars Summit in Geneva, Switzerland, with the purpose of discussing the options on the table for the second manned mission to Mars. The attendees number in the thousands, representing the states of the African Union, North American Union, European Union, and the Asian Union. In addition, thousands of scientists, engineers, philosophers attend and present either independently or with associations ranging from former Case For Mars conference members to The American Astronautical Society, NASA, and more. 

The minimalistic Mars Direct@footnote{See @ref{Mars Direct} for more information on Mars Direct.} approach of travelling light, living off of the land, and using indigenous materials to produce the fuel necessary for the journey home is again a central theme, but with more emphasis on the nature of the duration on Mars.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Jacob Kissinger, president of the @i{Council of Foreign Relations} holds a symposium at the Harold I. Pratt House in New York City, North American Union.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The @i{Trilateral Commission} holds its biannual meeting several months in advance, Tokyo, Asian Union.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The International Mars Summit concludes and publishes its findings in the @dfn{Report on the International Proceedings of the Mars Summit}. It concludes:
@sp 1

@quotation
@i{Zero capability missions have no value. The Mars Direct mission having demonstrated successfully the feasibility of sending humans to Mars, the bar now can and should be pushed. The attendees concluded unanimously that it is unwise to return merely for the sake of demonstrating that a safe return is possible again, having been determined already, but to establish a permanent settlement on Mars. The new mission architecture proposed is designed to bootstrap the first non-terrestrial expansion of human civilization for the benefit of all mankind.}
@end quotation
@sp 1

The plan's abstract outline is as such:
@sp 1
@itemize
@item
Send spacecraft carrying minimum necessary to bootstrap settlement, like @math{H_2}, getting there via nuclear electric ion-drive propulsion.
@item
Crew would deploy construction equipment and machinery to process indigenous materials for further expansion and self sustenance, aided with a nuclear reactor.
@item
Spacecraft returns to Earth unmanned, but fully fuelled using @i{in situ} methane / oxygen propellant.
@end itemize

A preliminary draft of the @dfn{Mars Treaty} is produced using a revised @i{Outer Space Treaty} of 1967 A.D. as a basis for a subset of it. The treaty provides the contractual basis for all signatories, outlining the roadmap, responsibilities, and party resource allocations necessary to serve as a vehicle for the terraformation and first manned mission to Mars operating under a United Nations mandate. The treaty also provides an agreement governing the activities of states on Mars and its two moons, Phobos and Deimos.

The terraformation strategy is to be initiated by intercepting @i{52048 Varuna} and deflecting it to directly impact Mars using a nuclear warhead. Being a C-type asteroid, it contains high levels of hydrated (water-containing) minerals which, when released into the atmosphere as aerosols, will greatly increase the total available cloud condensation nuclei. 

Data was presented at the summit predicting that the direct effect of the introduction of these new dark, carbonaceous, aerosols would be a decrease in albedo since they absorb more solar radiation. This would cause a cascading series of reactions, increasing the mean surface temperature and atmospheric pressure.

The deflection strategy will have the asteroid impact directly over the Martian south pole. The south pole contains a large sheet of buried CO₂ ice approximately 8m thick which, when sublimated, will act as a powerful greenhouse gas, thickening the atmosphere, along with the underlying water ice beneath it.

While the legalities of the project are defined in the @i{Mars Treaty}, the international collaborative project it implicates is known as the @dfn{Avaneya Initiative}.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@dfn{United Nations General Assembly Resolution 5571} is adopted making the Mars Treaty ratified. The resolution augments @i{Chapter III} of the @i{United Nations Charter} to beget its seventh principle organ, the @dfn{Space Agency} (UNSA). It is bestowed with a mandate enacting the treaty, and by implication, the Avaneya Initiative.

The United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) is dissolved. Its former responsibilities are transferred to UNSA under its new mandate.

The resolution also requires members to accede the North American Union Aeronautical and Space Agency (NASA), European Space Agency (ESA), Asian Aerospace Exploration Agency (AAXA), and all other national member space agencies under centralized UNSA administration. This is granted under the justification that space exploration and settlement ought to be an endeavour for all mankind, best realized through the aggregation of resources.

Lieberman is nominated to the Office of the President of the UNSA, resigning his position as director for the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
The UNSA's Office of the Avaneya Initiative disseminates more than ten-thousand requests for quotations.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
UNSA's Office of the Avaneya Initiative announces successful bids. The @dfn{Iterum Shipyard} contract is jointly awarded to Lockheed Martin-Boeing and Mercedes-Pratt & Whitney to robotically build a station remotely in low Earth orbit at a cost of 2.2 billion bancors. The station is to be used as a general purpose interplanetary space vehicle construction platform.

@c Lockheed Martin's failed X-33 design would be a good starting point for a model...
Lockheed Martin-Boeing is awarded a contract to provide three, leased, single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO), manned, re-usable, @dfn{VentureStar VII} suborbital spaceplanes. These spaceplanes provide UNSA with heavy lift workhorses for transporting personnel and materials to the Iterum Station. They require no external solid booster rockets or external fuel tank and each operate at less than @math{{1 / 5}^{th} } the cost of the long retired Space Shuttle predecessors.

Mitsubishi-Saab's is awarded a contract to provide the @dfn{Avaneya}, robitically constructed remotely @i{in situ}, at the @i{Iterum Shipyard}, at a cost of 7.8 billion bancors. 

Volvo-John Deere is awarded a contract to provide @i{Avaneya's} nuclear electric ion-drive propulsion system at a cost of 920 million bancors. It is used for the outbound trajectory, with the inbound trajectory provided by methane / oxygen (@math{CH_4} / @math{O_2}) return fuel manufactured @i{in situ}.

Soros-Murdoch Aerospace is awarded a contract to provide four @i{Mars Positioning System} satellites and the @i{Mars Enhanced Telecommunications Orbiter} carrying an optical relay at a cost 750 million bancors. The five satellites are carried as part of the Avaneya mission payload
@sp 1

@c Huelva pronounced \ˈwel-vä, ˈhwel-\
@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Construction of the first completed UNSA funded training facilities in Antarctica and Huelva, Spain, are completed.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Crew selection and training begins at training facilities.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Crew selection is completed with a broad range of personnel including flight engineers, artificial intelligence specialists with knowledge engineers among them, astrogeophysicists, cyberneticists, chemical and civil engineers, cold weather construction experts, mechanics, biogeochemists, geologists, areobotanists, one xenobiologist, and more. Arda Baştürk is named Mission Commander. United Nations envoy Jacob Kissinger is appointed to accompany the crew.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@dfn{Mars Science Laboratory Curiosity XI}, an unmanned autonomous aerial vehicle, explores potential landing sites for settlement. The integrated on-board artificial intelligence is instructed to evaluate sites based on average available sunlight, shallow radar determined underground water ice, minerology, surface geography, and other factors.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Internet Assigned Numbers Authority} allocates @code{A001:CA7:3134::/48} IPv6 address block for Martian use. 
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Last rocket leaves UNSA's Cape Canaveral launchpad carrying construction material for the @i{Iterum Shipyard}.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Avaneya} construction is completed @i{in situ} at the @i{Iterum Shipyard}, low Earth orbit. The station orbits Earth at an altitude of 340 km, travelling at a speed of 27,400 km/h, and taking one and a half hours to complete one orbital revolution.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Launched from the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, an SSTO transporting the @i{Avaneya} crew dock with the @i{Iterum Shipyard}, low Earth orbit.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Avaneya} completes all system checks and disembarks @i{Iterum Shipyard} berth. It performs a delta-v from low Earth orbit into a type II Hohmann transfer orbital manoeuvre.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Avaneya crew commence scheduled experiments in space medicine, life sciences, astronomy, physical sciences, meteorology, and human research.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Avaneya} engages short burn of manoeuvring thruster to performs debris collision avoidance.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Avaneya crew complete all scheduled experiments in space medicine, life sciences, astronomy, physical sciences, meteorology, and human research.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Avaneya} deploys four @i{Mars Positioning Satellites} (MPS) into medium Martian orbit.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Avaneya} aerobreaks into Martian orbit. Instrumentation subsystems update onboard areology database on detailed surface geography, weather dynamics, mineralogy, and more.

@i{Mars Enhanced Telecommunications Orbiter} is released and deploys itself into geostationary orbit.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Mars Enhanced Telecommunications Orbiter} successfully completes self diagnostics and registers itself into UNSA's @i{Interplanetary Internet} as an available communications node, giving rise to what becomes colloquially known as @dfn{Solnet}. Terran downlink passes through a ground station at UNSA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory providing tier 1 network access.

Brokered by a satellite uplink with METO, the @i{Avaneya} communications team establish contact with Mission Control routed over Solnet. Solnet becomes the defacto standard for Earth-Mars intercommunication.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Landing site selected. Cargo of mostly construction equipment, hydrogen fuel, water, and other provisions, are jettisoned and parachuted to surface with no material loss, save one asset due to an attitude control computer malfunction.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
All crew alight the @i{Avaneya}, boarding the @dfn{Manu} landing craft. No one is left onboard to be exposed to further solar flares and cosmic radiation.

The @i{Avaneya} tracks the critical manoeuvres of @i{Manu's} entry, descent, and soft landing at the preselected @i{Arcadia Planitia} drop site. The communications uplink with Mission Control is maintained throughout over a 4 minute delayed Solnet connection.

Crew perform a successful soft landing where they are met with a temperature of @math{-70^{\circ}}C and an atmospheric pressure of 0.030 kPa. Time is local noon, allowing for maximum photovoltaic use.

Team briefings are conducted within @i{Manu} at the drop site. Concurrently, the recovery team are deployed to recover all assets.

Base nuclear reactor is brought online, along with temporary portable dynamic isotope power systems.

The construction team begin minor excavation for anchoring and erecting temporary 340 mb rated aluminium strut reinforced inflatable polypropylene tents for the Command Centre and habitats, not requiring a pressurized suit. The greenhouse tent is rated 68 mb sufficient for plant life, but requiring a pressurized suit.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Gas extractors are brought online and run at full capacity capturing liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen, argon, and carbon dioxide. 

Sebatier, RWGS, and methanol gas processors@footnote{See @ref{Glossary} for more information on the Sebatier and RWGS reactors.} create methane, oxygen, hydrogen, methanol, and aqua successfully.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Recovery team's rovers directed by scouts on methanol motorbikes complete asset recovery of all undamaged parachuted cargo within a 92 kilometre radius from the crew landing site.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
On-board artificial intelligence and system firmware is upgraded from UNSA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory over Solnet.

Mechanics team complete the necessary preparation of the backhoes, front loaders, bulldozers, tractors, graders, water ice processors, dump trucks, and other vehicles rendering them available for construction team use.

Mining and excavation operations begin through a mixture of directly manned, remotely manned, and autonomous operation.
@sp 1

@c Needs to happen at next window of opportunity...
@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Mars Ascent Vehicles Alpha and Bravo intercept with the @i{Avaneya} in low Martian orbit transferring the methane and oxygen Earth-return fuel.
@sp 1

@c Needs to happen at next window of opportunity...
@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Mission Commander directs flight engineer to issue instructions remotely to the @i{Avaneya} to return to Iterum Shipyard from the surface.
@sp 1

@b{B.R.}
@sp 0
Arda submits himself as a candidate on the ballot for Chancellor of the Republic, accepting it to form the first interim government. Kissinger strongly advises him against this as being unnecessary.
@sp 1

@c Year zero...
@b{3 May 0 A.R. (Year Zero Epoch)}
@sp 0
Arda informs the Secretary-General of the United Nations over Solnet in an internationally televised address of the passages of the Rubicon Act, initiating steps to secure the settlement's independence. 

The Act declares the colony an independent, sovereign, self-governed, constitutional republic, with a right to self determination. @dfn{Article IX} discharges all public debt held by the @i{International Monetary Fund} and @i{World Bank} effective immediately. The bancor fiat currency is replaced with a rhodium@footnote{See @ref{Glossary} for more information on rhodium.} standard as legal tender within the republic. Begotten is the @dfn{Republic of Arcadia Planitia}, colloquially known as @dfn{Arcadia}.

Arda holds an election for populating his cabinet.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Arcadia} passes the @dfn{Humanoid Act}, stripping corporate legal fictions of the rights of human beings.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
Lockheed Martin-Boeing's Advanced Development Programs (Skunk Works) begins refitting the Avaneya in response to a UNSA contract for a classified mission payload.

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
This day is a minimum-energy launch window for Terran inbound. Arda has a security detail escort United Nations envoy Jacob Kissinger to @i{EVA Bravo}, Earth-bound.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
United Nations Security Council Resolution 12664 is adopted which

@quotation
@i{"unequivocally condemns in the strongest terms terrorist Martian efforts as a threat to international peace, security, and the spirit Mars Treaty. The Security Council does not recognize the self proclaimed government of the Republic of Arcadia Planitia as legitimate. The Security Council calls upon all members to proactively prevent the regional instability and deteriorating situation on the Martian planitia"}. 
@end quotation
@sp 1

The resolution recommends to the @dfn{United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations} (UNDPKO) that it place all four permanent standing @dfn{Rapid Reaction Force} battalions on high alert.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
Selected Rapid Reaction Force personnel are assigned to UNSA training facilities in Antarctica and Huelva, Spain.
@sp 1

@c Need a strategic transport...
@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
@i{Yama}'s launch window is missed due to low-Earth orbit overly saturated with space debris. UNSA engineers fear they may be approaching the Kessler effect of causing a runaway chain reaction, reducing all objects in orbit. This would threaten the @i{Iterum Shipyard} and all Terran space exploration. Departure is rescheduled for the next launch window of 25 months.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
Arcadia's @i{EVA Bravo} carrying Kissinger lands at Edwards Air Force Base, California, NAU. The spacecraft becomes a UNSA asset.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
The @dfn{Yama}, a manned spacecraft, completes a type I Hohmann transfer orbital manoeuvre, aerobreaking into Martian geostationary orbit. 

Yama carries a payload of remotely operated equipment destined for Phobos, a photographic reconnaissance satellite, as well as a single Rapid Reaction Force battalion. The battalion is to be deployed as the @dfn{United Nations Emergency Assistance Peacekeeping Force}. Its numbers are drawn principally from North American Union and European Union airborne light infantry units.
@sp 1

@b{A.R.}
@sp 0
Yama's Commanding Officer Lieutenant-Colonel Dragov issues warning orders down the chain of command to prepare for insertion, geostationary orbit, Mars.
@sp 1

