@c Important Concepts chapter...
@node Important Concepts
@chapter Important Concepts

The following is a collection of concepts which are useful in understanding the game world. They range from the everyday colloquial to the technical. Familiarizing yourself with them before you read on may be helpful.
@sp 1

@c Albedo...
@node Albedo
@section Albedo
The proportion of incoming light reflected. It is the ratio of reflected light to total incident light. That is, a material with an alebdo of 1 is a perfect mirror whereas a material with an albedo of 0 absorbs all incident light.
@sp 1

@c Bancor...
@node Bancor
@section Bancor
A global currency proposed in the early 1940s by the British economist John Maynard Keynes. On 13 April 2010, the @dfn{Strategy, Policy and Review Department of the International Monetary Fund} published a paper @dfn{Reserve Accumulation and International Monetary Stability}@footnote{@url{http://www.imf.org/external/np/pp/eng/2010/041310.pdf}} recommending the world adopt the bancor and create an international central bank to administer it.
@sp 1

@c Endothermic reaction...
@node Endothermic Reaction
@section Endothermic Reaction
A chemical reaction that requires energy to be put into it in order to react. An example would be cooking an egg. The egg doesn't change unless you apply heat to it. This is contrasted with an @emph{exothermic reaction}.
@sp 1

@c Exothermic reaction...
@node Exothermic Reaction
@section Exothermic Reaction
A chemical reaction that releases energy as part of its reaction. An example would be burning wood. As the wood changes, it releases energy in the form of mostly heat.
@sp 1

@c Genuine Progress Indicator...
@node Genuine Progress Indicator
@section Genuine Progress Indicator
The GPI is a system of true cost accounting which is intended to be a replacement to the GDP, gross domestic product, sometimes called the gross national product, GNP. The GPI works by taking into account all costs of an activity to society and provides a net balance sheet. The latter, on the other hand, only functions as an income sheet by tabulating the total amount of goods and services produced in a year. 

An example where the difference between the two is well illustrated is with the tobacco industry. The GDP would account for the value of all cigarettes sold (a positive figure). Conversely, the GPI would also account for the total value of all units sold, but then go on to subtract the deficits socialized to everyone in the form of health costs, fires, garbage collection, environmental toxicity, and the deaths of approximately 5,000,000@footnote{@emph{Merchants of Doubt: How a Handful of Scientists Obscured the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming}, Naomi Oreskes, Bloomsbury Press, 2010} people every year (a negative figure).
@sp 1

@c Mars Direct...
@node Mars Direct
@section Mars Direct
Mars Direct is a $50 billion dollar plan proposed by an American aerospace engineer named Robert Zubrin (born April 19, 1952) as an alternative to the prohibitively costly $450 billion dollar mission to Mars proposed by NASA in consultation with its government.

The then incumbent President of the United States, George H. W. Bush, announced the government's proposal in 1989 as the @dfn{Space Exploration Initiative}. It called for the creation of the @dfn{Space Station Freedom} and a permanent Lunar base as intermediate steps for an ultimate destination to the Red Planet. If implemented, it was to be rolled out over the process of several decades.

Zubrin reasoned that it is totally unnecessary to construct giant space stations in low earth orbit, useless Lunar bases on a barren moon, and massive spacecraft carrying hundreds of people to achieve a manned mission to Mars. That, along with transporting all that is necessary to get there, survive there, and return safely. He argued that the government prefers an intentionally bloated approach because it creates the illusion of progress and productivity through countless jobs, contracts, bureaucratic expansion, and so on. But it comes at the cost of enormous waste, misdirected resources, and through increased complexity, an increased likelihood of disaster.

Zubrin compared their approach to the failed Arctic explorer, Sir John Franklin, who, with government assistance in 1845 took two ships, the @i{Erebus} and @i{Terror}, each displacing more than 300 tonnes in an effort to navigate through the Northwest Passage. His ships carried all manner of useless items, including heavy English silverware, but spared many of the critical items necessary for survival. 

The crew met a bitter end as they dragged heavy iron and oak sleds across the Arctic ice, having abandoned their ships that were stranded. With shotguns useless in the Arctic and other heavy and inappropriate equipment, all 127 men ended up perishing to the combined efforts of the elements and scurvy. It never occurred to them to take advantage of @i{in situ} resources, like fur coats, seals, and fish.

Zubrin argued that the Space Exploration Initiative's mission architecture is an absolute inverse of a sound engineering approach. He outlined cogently in his book @i{The Case For Mars} for a very reasonable, well thought out, minimalistic approach of travelling light, living off the land, and manufacturing the necessary rocket propellant for the return trip @i{in situ}. This is akin to the efforts of early Terran settlers, like those who pushed through the American Western Frontier, or virtually ever other civilization's successful effort at settling a distant land. Going to another planet is, according to him, no different. Indeed, the travel time to Mars is comparable to that of navigating the Northwest Passage.

This trans-planetary travel to Mars is possible because Mars is so opulent. It has an abundance of natural resources necessary for creating rocket fuels, water, plastic polymers, alloyed metals, glass, gasses like oxygen, semi-conductors, ceramics, and just about everything else one might require. All this, he calculated, at a fraction of the cost of NASA's proposal, and using technology that has been around since the mid-@math{19^{th}} century.@footnote{See the @i{Reverse Water Gas Shift} and @i{Sebatier} reactors in the glossary, for instance.} His plan could allegedly be realized in less than a decade with current technology, as opposed to requiring several decades.
@sp 1

@c Regolith...
@node Regolith
@section Regolith
What most refer to as dirt. More technically, it is the the loose heterogeneous mixture of material that blankets the solid rock of a planet.
@sp 1

@c Rhodium
@node Rhodium
@section Rhodium
An elemental chemical with the symbol Rh and atomic number 45. It is a member of the platinum family and considered to be the most precious metal of that family, even exceeding the value of gold. It is also one of rarist. 

Usually the only way of getting any kind of high quantity mineral is through high-grade ore. This only happens when complex hydrological and volcanic processes have happened, which in our solar system, has only occured on Mars and Earth - hence why the Moon is barren. But unlike the Earth, Martian deposits have remained untapped.
@sp 1

@c RWGS reactor...
@node RWGS reactor
@section RWGS reactor
The reverse-water-gas-shift reactor is a method of producing oxygen (@math{O_2}) from carbon dioxide (@math{CO_2}). This is useful because the latter is plentiful in the Martian atmosphere at 95 %.

@sp 1
@math{CO_2(g) + H_2(g) \rightarrow O_2(g) + CO(g)}
@sp 1

The process has been known since the mid 1800s and works by reacting carbon dioxide and hydrogen gasses together over a copper-on-alumina catalyst. Aqua (liquid water) and carbon monoxide gas are produced as byproducts. The aqua is split via electrolysis to produce hydrogen and oxygen gasses. The hydrogen can then be recycled back into the reactor and the carbon monoxide purged out into the atmosphere.

The reactor needs to be at @math{400\,^{\circ}{\rm C}} and at low pressure. It requires about 180 watts of power, or about 3 @math{m^2} of solar panels on a fully sunny day's average solar flux. At that energy rate, you can expect to produce about 1 kg per day of oxygen, which is sufficient for a single person. The reactor requires power because it is an @emph{endothermic reaction}. However, it is possible to use a @emph{Sebatier reactor} in tandem, which is an exothermic process, to provide the heat required to drive the RWGS reaction.

To start the process, only a small amount of water is required which acts as a reagent. By importing hydrogen from Earth, it acts to the colonists' advantage in allowing it to be leveraged in the creation of water, or hydrogen gas if needed.
@sp 1

@c Sebatier reactor...
@node Sebatier Reactor
@section Sebatier Reactor
A chemical process for creating methane @math{CH_4} from @math{CO_2} and hydrogen. This is useful because carbon dioxide gas is plentiful in the Martian atmosphere at 95 %.

@sp 1
@math{CO_2(g) + 4H_2(g) \rightarrow CH_4(g) + 2H_2O(g) + heat}
@sp 1

The reactor needs to be at @math{400\,^{\circ}{\rm C}} and at low pressure. This makes it almost the same as the @emph{RWGS reactor} except that it uses a different catalyst to make methane instead of carbon monoxide. You can either use nickel, which is cheap, or ruthenium-on-alumina, which is safer, but more expensive.
@sp 1

@c Sol...
@node Sol
@section Sol
Short for solar day, the length of time a planet takes to rotate completely on its polar axis with respect to the sun. Terrans call this a day, Martians a sol. See also @i{yestersol}.
@sp 1

@c Specific impulse...
@node Specific Impulse
@section Specific Impulse
Written @math{I_{sp}}, the specific impulse is a useful metric for comparing rocket efficiency. Whenever you see the word "specific" in a physics context, it means something per unit of mass. The units are in seconds. It measures the amount of time that one pound of fuel will burn for, producing one pound of thrust (higher being better). This can be calculated using either SI or Imperial units, but the end result is usually expressed in seconds. 

As an example, compare the specific impulse of some of the different types of rockets.

@multitable @columnfractions .10 .45 .30 .5
@headitem @tab Rocket Type @tab Fuel @tab @math{I_{sp}}

@item 
@tab Ancient Chinese Rocket
@tab Gunpowder
@tab 80
@item 
@tab Modern Rocket (e.g. ICBM)
@tab Solid
@tab 250
@item 
@tab Saturn V
@tab LOx / kerosene
@tab 260
@item 
@tab Space Shuttle Main Engine
@tab LOx / @math{H_2}
@tab 400
@item 
@tab Nuclear Thermal
@tab Solid
@tab 800
@item 
@tab Nuclear Thermal 
@tab Liquid
@tab 1300
@item 
@tab Jet Engine 
@tab Compressed Air
@tab 3000
@end multitable
@sp 1

Note how high the specific impulse a jet engine offers. This is because it is has an unlimited supply of free air from the atmosphere to feed the air compressor so it does not have to carry its own supply.
@sp 1

@c Yestersol...
@node Yestersol
@section Yestersol
The sol preceding the current one. This is the Mars analogue to the Terran yesterday, but different since the length of a sol on both worlds is different.
@sp 1

